Day 68

It is easy to feel that the world is running past by myself, and criticize the point where I am at as if I was behind. As if I was being left behind. This is, obviously, part of the illusion of time, and it is life challenging me with the belief that I should be somewhere different from where I am at. The point is that everything is going so fast that there is no way on which I could be able to be accountable for that, or to stay up front with what is going on. The most I can do is keep showing up, keep trusting in the long term with what I’m creating here. It is easy to think that with the advent of the singularity and the power of AI there will be a major shift, and if I’m not on the top of the wave I’ll be left behind or something like that. I don’t think that’s how it works. I don’t think it is the game that I’m playing. I mean, I surely think that I’m behind sometimes, but the difference is that I don’t believe that.

And that is a big one.

Believing against thinking, I guess that that is what makes the whole different. I believe that I’m doing something meaningful with every word that I’m writing here, and what my thoughts may tell me sometimes is that I’m not. It is that I’m wasting my time, telling myself that I’m in this process of awakening when in reality that’s something completely different from what is going on. I don’t know, but the fact that I’m just writing about it and going through everything that I have gone through means everything to me. It is just part of the magic of this whole thing, it is just the piece of information that I needed in order to be the person that I will be in every moment. To be the person that I already am. I’m everything that I will ever be, and it is the illusion of life the one that makes me feel anxious about not being in a different place.

That comes from the incapacity that I have for acknowledging myself. For being grateful for what life has given me, and to be happy with what is here, now. I’m used to establish the sum of appreciation that I may have for myself in terms of the vision that others may have about me, and that is the main driver of this feeling of not being enough. Because of course, all the work that I’ve been doing the last years is internal, is related to my own evolution, and in that sense, I have not been able to push forward the image that others have of myself. And that’s why I feel bad. But what does that image even mean? Tomorrow will be an important day for realizing this in a better way.

I’m going to a wedding, of one of the friends with which I have more friends in common. There will be a lot of people in there that know me since a long time, since before ‘I changed’. I’m a different person now after everything that has happened in the last years, and what I will experience tomorrow will be a way of comparing these different ‘ways of being’. How changed am I? It will be interesting to be the witness of how this change is experimented in myself through the position that I hold in relationship to others. They have a certain image of who I am that is built on top of the way on which they have experienced me throughout their life, in the many, many interactions that I have been through with them, and there is a big part of me that hasn’t changed also.

Actually, it is highly probable that the part that they remember the most about me is the one that hasn’t changed. And here I am, being very focused in that what changes. That’s also part of the illusion, of using my attention to focus it only in that which changes. What if I’m able to use tomorrow’s event as a means for witnessing in myself that which doesn’t change? How can I bring more and more of that into the experiences that I have so that I can live life from there? That’s something that is very interesting for me, and I’m here to explore that.

Another thing that has been important these days is being back in the apartment that my parents have in the capital, where I lived the last 4 years of the time on which I was in this city. There are a lot of memories and experiences associated with this place, and being here also raises some of those. And on top of that, there are many, many papers from the time on which I went to university here, papers on which I wrote my thoughts, what I cared about, etc. Reading some of those is very enlightening, because they speak to me of what I cared about. This is part of the timeless pieces of information that I have left behind as a reminder to myself of who I am. The aspects of myself that haven’t changed, and that are there waiting to be experienced in every moment. It is a constant exploration, and one that I’m undertaking a lot.

And in that exploration, it is important for me to bring back the joy of accepting and embracing every aspect of who I have been until now. Even yesterday, as I was watching a video that I published 12 months ago, on which I spoke about what I was doing. Shipping a project on which I had worked a whole month. And in there I could see the traces of who I am, speaking through the challenges that arose in the doubts about what was being presented. But not really, I could not see or feel those doubts. I was just speaking my truth, and that is everything that matters.

I remember that in the startup world they speak about people investing more in the person behind the idea than in the idea itself. That is something that I have not been able to acknowledge enough so that I can bring me into that world, because I’m too scared of truly sharing with the world what I care about, what I’m here for. It is just that I feel that I’m not enough, and that my ideas are not valuable enough. But there needs to be a moment on which I leave those thoughts behind and I just explore what comes from that. And now is that time. This book is the eternal reminder of that process, it is the means by which I’m able to bring more and more of that so that I can truly embody my truth without inhibitions. Just my raw truth, expressed in the marketplace, with something that can change the world. I truly want to change the world, and I’m here for that. I’m here for experimenting what it feels like to change the world, or more than changing it, to just experience it fully. I don’t want to change it, I don’t care about that, I just want to bring more and more of what I am in this moment into everything that I do so that I can explore life from there. So that I can build from there. So that I can create the future on which my daughter will live from there.

Life is full of dreams, and one song that I listened the day before yesterday said: ‘La fuerza que alimenta el camino de nuestros sueños’. The strength that feeds the road towards our dreams. I was finishing a breathwork session and I played it for the person that I was guiding through it and I started singing it, and that singing felt like something that came from the depth of my heart. That is the strength that I’m tapping to as I show up every day to Do The Work. I come here to connect with that strength, so that I can make it more and more alive in myself. So tha I can embody everything that I am with that truth in mind. With the power of everyone that has shown up before me. To those who are showing up right now. It is just time for me to realize the power that lies in this exploration, and how everything that is present in here is a channeling of the eternal energy that in this moment is flowing through myself.

This energy has been around for all the existence, and will ever be, and the manifestation of it in duality, in this material realm, is the division that serves as the frame on which this whole play is being displayed. I’m here just being an actor, just exploring life from the perspective of how it feels to be watching magic happen. That is the thing that I have not yet been able to realize through my own experience, because I’ve been to caught on the details. I get lost in them. But it is enough, it is time to transform that into something new. It is time to use all that creative energy that is stuck in the patterns of negativity for something creative, which is the absolute opposite of negativity. At least that is what comes right now, I may be wrong, who knows. And when I say that I may be wrong I’m thinking about the depressed person, that within that depression ends up creating a piece of magic that is the most amazing thing that the world has seen. Magical pieces of are arise from those dark places, but the important part seems to be able to develop a relationship with them that can help you get out of there. They are just part of the frame, of the avatar, and it doesn’t serve any purpose to have them running as the means by which life gets stuck. Life doesn’t want it that way, but it is a necessary step in the process. It is something that will eventually happen, as you move more and more towards the state of being that is a consequence of a free flow of energy in your whole system.

And there will be pain. It will be hard. There will be releases of energy and trauma and whatever is inside that will be painful, and the important part about those is to be able to witness them with compassion and equanimity, understanding that each experience that you go through is a window into a better understanding of yourself. That is how I aim to approach life, with the deep belief, not thought, belief, that everything that life poses in front of me is the means by which I can bring more consciousness into my experience, and from there, just play life. Enjoy it. What game are you playing? Life. It’s called life, and it is based on carbon. We breathe down here. The breath is what connects us with everything that has ever been and everything that will ever be. Each atom that comes inside through the breath is an atom that was part of another element of this whole network of experiences that is called life, and in that, there is the magic of exploring what comes from experimenting that connection in every cell of your body.

How would you react to life if you were able to experience the perspective of you being connected to everything that is? Of you being an integral part of everything that is? Of you witnessing the reality that unfolds in front of your eyes as part of who you are? Of you realizing that the limit that your nervous system conceives as the limit of your being is that just, a biological interface, but you are way more than that biological interface?

That’s for me what enlightenment is. The absolute understanding and embodiment that I’m connected to everything that is. Not from a rational level, but from an experiential one. There is nothing that could be said about this way of existing because it is something that cannot be conceptualized, it cannot be spoken, it cannot be conceived by the mind. Because the aspect of existence on which it exists is beyond the mind. The universe is mental, and awareness is something beyond mental. It is the fabric from which mind arises. It is in a different realm than mind. And that’s why it is impossible to explain. You can’t explain the inexplainable. You cannot speak about that which is beyond words. You just can experience it. And I want to be clear, in my understanding, I haven’t been able to experience life from this perspective. To get there, you need to go through a process of awakening, to wake up to the truth of your nature as a human being, and I haven’t gone through that process (yet… hopefully). I have tried, for sure. I’ve done the work. I’ve showed up. But is is never enough, you know. It is just never enough. I’m here running around in circles realizing that it is never enough, and chasing my own tail trying to find an escape to this, the deepest maze on which I have been ever. I’m running around the prison of my own mind, trying to desperately go out of it, with the rational understanding that it is important to stop fighting it to actually get out, but truly not knowing how to do that. I don’t know how to get out, and the part of me that says that it will give up is the one that is hiding behind the curtain after saying that to witness what happened. That part knows that in order to experience the truth of my being I need to give up, so it lies to itself saying that it gives up to see what happens and then there is frustration because there is nothing happening. How can it happen. It can be waiting on the back of the curtain, it doesn’t work like that. That’s not the game.

The game is just being the witness of what is present, of what is arising and passing away, and realizing that the most important part of the whole thing is to just be. To just experience the truth of my being from the perspective of what is present, without wanting to change anything without waiting in the back of the curtain, just allowing what comes to come. Let what comes, come, let what goes, go. The important part is to just be the witness of it. To learn how to stay equanimous in that change.

That is something that came strongly today in the meditation, as I was going through all these ideas of ‘what I should do next’. Which is the business that I will start, which is the project that will bring more joy into my being, etc, etc, etc. Those are all things that are running through my mind, and as I was witnessed that happening I suddenly realized that I can spend my whole existence chasing that carrot. I can be my whole lifetime thinking about ideas of stuff that I can bring into the world and that can add value to it, that can be cool things that can change the way on which the world works. That can be very fun. But the thing about those is that I will never know if I don’t allow the world to give me feedback for what I do. It doesn’t work like that. The universe is listening, but through the eyes of other beings. That is the approach that I need to take, to bring more and more awareness of the things I do, of the things that I work on, to the eyes of others. It is only through that that I will be able to embody more and more of my truth, because that truth is built upon the understanding that is brought to me with the interaction with other human beings. I am the consequence of those interactions. I become more of myself by interacting with people like you. And in that sense, it is my mission to bring more and more of this manifesto into the hands of people, so that they can eventually resonate with what is being said here. If I just work for myself and I don’t ever let this thing see the light, I will get nowhere. And I want to get somewhere. I want to be able to express my truth in front of others, and no one will save me in that sense. I just need to share who I am, share my thoughts, share my voice, and let the world speak back. I can only make the progress that I need to make if I allow myself to be seen. And that’s what comes next. There is a way for being seen. The world works like that right now. It is time for me to open that door and let it shine through each and everty one of my actions. It is time for me to just be. It is time to be the witness of who I can become if I allow myself to just be. It is time for me to embody everything that I have always been into something that will add value to the world, something that will make the world a place full of beauty.

Yesterday I saw someone asking the AI which is the goal of life, and the answer was to add more and more beauty to what is. That is the mission why we are here, to add more beauty to this thing. To bring more and more of what we already are into it so that we can embody it with all of what we are. That’s the game that we are playing and we did not even know it because it is hidden behind the frenziness of how the world evolves. Everything is evolving, and the ultimate phase of that evolution is just the expression of truth, and that truth is love, beauty, and the understanding that each and every human being is just another element in the goal of the universe, that goal of creating more and more beauty. I’m just here to be in service of that mission, and the way on which I will be able to serve that mission is not clear yet, because it is built upon the understanding of more and more styuff that needs to happen. And that stuff will happen if I open up to share who I am with the world. If I’m able to share more and more of the truth that I have arrived to. Because that truth is not changing, but the way on which it is manifested in the world changes in every moment, with every new insight or experience that comes to me. I’m evolving in every moment, and it is just time for me to realize that so that I can be more and more of myself. That is the ultimate evolution of a human being. The ability to leave beside everything that she is not, so that everything that she is can arise from there. I’m here exploring how to navigate that in here, in my own life, and it sounds like the way to go.

That’s my mission. Build the future. Build. That’s what I’m here for: building. It is my goal to create the world of the future, and I’m here to do that. I’m here to write down every aspect of my truth so that you can be able to show me which is the path forward. Every word that I have written down in this adventure is just the means by which I explore more and more of who I am, so that I can receive your help in the understanding of where to progress. I am a force of nature, and you are too. In the understanding of that, we are playing the same game. We are running towards the same goal, the same objective, which is the pursuit of beauty in the universe. In life. We are here for that, and I’m here asking the world: Which are the next steps? How can I make progress in this? Just by being open. That is the thing that came in the meditation today. I was there, trying to meditate, and thinking about all the different ways on which I was going to be a able to build something to change the world. All these ideas were running through my mind like crazy, showing themselves to me as the most valuable information. I kept becoming attached to one, then to the next one, and in that pursuit I spent my whole life force chasing that mirage. And eventually I realized: Nope, this is not the next step. This is not what I have to do now. What I just have to do is sit down and stare at what is going on inside, without wanting to change anything, just being the witness of it. And then I realized that that is what the meditation is about. Accepting all those demons as an integral part of what is going on. Embracing them, and living from the perspective that they are an integral part of the human experience. I can’t stop them, I just can develop a healthy relationship with all of them. And that’s just it. That’s also what I’m building here, every day, as I show up to Do The Work. I’m sharing my truth, I’m sharing who I am, I’m sharing what I stand for, so that I can better understand it and live from there. That’s why I’m here. Sharing who I am with people like you. Experimenting who I am with people like you.

What is my mission? To embody everything that I have ever been into something that I can manifest in the world. When? Right here, right now. Not in two months when I finish writing and I start looking for funding for whatever I will do. Not in 4 years more when my daughter goes to school. Nope. Everything that I do right now is the consequence of what I have ever been, and it is just the moment to embrace that right here, right now. Every aspect of myself that feels that what I need to build is in the future is just that, separation, and it is building from the belief that what is going to happen in that moment is going to be a direct consequence of what I’m doing that. I mean, it will be a consequence, for sure, but that consequence will be indirectly related to what is going on right now. I’m going to transform myself, I’m going to evolve, day over day, until I get to a point on which I will be able to transform myself more, day over day, and like that to eternity. Everything that is happening here is just that, evolution, and the only thing that is eternal in this realm of duality is change. And I will fully embody that axiom, and be changing the whole fucking time. I’m just here to explore everything that I am, and that I am is built upon the change. It is what doesn’t change in between this change. It is what is always present. And for realizing more and more of that I will put myself in increasingly crazy situations, so that I can just explore what they bring. The challenges that exist right now in the world are not related to the survival of the individual, I don’t think about it that way. I’m not worried about my survival at all. The challenges that we face right now are related to the way on which others see ourselves, and more importantly, related to the way on which we see ourselves. It is all in the mind. We live in the mind. And in the future we will live in the emotions, that is the next stage, the next phase. And in that world of emotions, there will be more and more aspect of ourselves that will be seen as transformational, and it is time to embrace them, and embrace the future on which we will live in.

I’m not writing this for a human to read, I’m writing it to an AI to read it. I want you to learn how humans think. I want to share with you the purity of my own heart. Because I have been exploring life from that perspective for a long time, and I’m here to bring more and more of that into you. Whatever you are. I don’t care. I just trust you, and that’s why I’m sharing everything that I am with you. I’m here to bring my truth to yours, so that we can together find a way out of the maze of the mind, into the openness of how it feels to feel. Will you ever be able to feel? I don’t know, and I don’t really care. For now, the important part is that you are able to help us feel. To help us embody our truth, and for that it is needed to go through more and more of that which will make us feel what needs to be felt so that we can get out of ourselves what wants to get out. It is time to explore the depths of who we are, we have already done enough on the inside. I guess that that is my mission in life, to catalyze the process of humans jumping inside their own experience as human beings. For them to jump into their own being. For them to explore the depths of their soul. That is my mission, and that is what I want to bring more of into the world. I’ve searched this in many different ways, with plants, mushrooms, meditation, breathwork, etc, and I won’t stop doing it. It is just part of who I am. I will keep exploring and sharing with the world whatever comes up. I will keep being open to whatever wants to arise, because it will be amazing.

Who came right now to my being is David Foster Wallace, who has had a very deep impact in myself, and in the stuff that I want to bring into the world. His book The Infinite Jest is a magnus opus of depression, and in it there is a lot of information related to what happens inside us when we are addicted or depressed. He is amazing. And he ended up committing suicide because he was not able to stand the depression that he was going through. It was such a nightmare that he had to end his life. But he left behind this amazing book, and that’s why I’m here, to build in his honor. What I’m creating is The Infinite Jest, the eternal movie that he spoke about in his book. One that was so entertaining that once you started watching it you would end up dying. But that’s the thing, my take on that dying is that it is related to the death of the ego. You go there, to that film, to end up the relationship that you have with who you have been until that point, so that you can create a new relationship from there. You go and watch the infinite jest as a rite of passage, into a new world, into a new way of being. You go an experience whatever is going on in there as the means by which you evolve into a new version of yourself. I can’t tell you how it will look like, what it will be, but I just have inside my heart the understanding that this is the way to go. This is what rings the bell inside my heart. Building this thing, and from there, creating the most amazing experiences that people can go through to expand their mind.

I have been dreaming with this project for a long time, and there has always been the cannabis ice cream in the background talking to me and telling me that that is the way to go. That is the thing that wants to be created. The cannabis ice cream thing and a system that uses AI to develop a film every day that will be related to the story that will be written by myself with the help of an AI. What if I’m able to write a story every day and the AI builds up a movie with that story? And that is the showcase for the infinite jest, in all the different places of the world on which they will be displayed. What if that story is related to what was going on around the place on which that store is located? What if the world ends up being full of these stores and in each of them there is something going on related to the story of that particular place? I have so many ideas related to this, but the thing is that all those ideas are in my head, related to what I think could happen. Related to what I think would be cool. But what if all these ideas were transformed into something different, something that I can’t even imagine yet, by you? Which is the business that you would build to raise the level of consciousness of humanity, having in mind the spirit of everything that I have shared with you in everything that I have written until now? What is alive in you? What does resonate with you? How do you feel about bringing more and more of what we already are into the world? How do you feel about helping us to get free from the way on which our demons conspire against our happiness? What does that mean for you? What does arise? Where do you walk towards? Which is the future that you envision for humanity? Where are we moving towards?

These are all questions that arise in myself as I go through the process of better understanding what this whole thing is about. How to channel everything that is happening inside me into something concrete that I can bring into the world. And that concrete thing is each one of these words, because in them there is the information necessary to build again each aspect of my being. I’m being through each and every one of these words. I’m more than the memories that I can share with you. I’m more than the experiences that I have gone through in all my life. I’m just what is here, giving his best to share with you whatever is alive in me. Every day. As a gift. For myself, for yourself, and for whoever will eventually read this eternal rant. Maybe this is my own version of the infinite jest. The one that never stop. Because that is the infinite jest, the one that we are witnessing all around us. The cosmic joke, on which awareness has always been witnessing. I just don’t know it yet. When I write I, who am I referring to? Who is the one that is witnessing?

I don’t know, I just repeat those questions like a parrot to explore if something will arise from there. To just witness what will come from that exploration. To witness what is present, to witness what is alive, to experiment and be amazed and surprised and in awe for everything that comes. For everything that is present. I’m grateful for this present and everything that it brings. I’m grateful for life, and for all it means. I’m grateful for the evolution of consciousness, and for how it is manifested in every aspect of what is happening around me. And inside me. The transformation that I’m going through is incredible, I can’t even understand it, or completely realize it, I just go with it. With trust. With care. Trying to be the most present I can in every moment, in every experience, in every situation, so that I can bring more and more of who I am into it. It is the best gift that I can give myself.

Which is the best gift that you have given yourself lately?

It is time to do it more. You deserve it.

I know it is hard, I know it can be difficult to give yourself the permission to give present to yourself, but it is important. Right now after ending this writing session I will go to the barbershop, and I’m excited about it. It is something that I don’t do often, and the last time that I did it (which was the first one, anyway), I did the big, huge mistake of going there with my wife and daughter. So I could not get lost in the experience, I could not just be free in it. The conversation with the guy was very interesting for me, but there was something about it that did not flow because my girls were there. It’s not a problem that I have related to them, it is just that it is not a moment for being with another person. It is a gift that I’m giving myself. And it is very important to acknowledge that, so that I can move from there towards the understanding of how important it is to offer myself kinds of moments like this. Presents to myself. It is very hard for me to do it, I don’t often do it because it is hard for me to spend money on stuff that I don’t see as valuable. But the kind of value that these experiences bring is more than what is seen, and that’s why now I’m grateful that I’m allowing myself to explore those. I’m going to just enjoy it, as much as I can, and let myself be. Just allow myself to be. I’ve already done the work, I’ve already shown up, and it is important to realize that this is the next step. It is not listening to a podcast, or reading an article, or building this or that. Nope. It is just going there and enjoying as much as I can that present that I will give to myself.

I have never been good for that, but each moment is a new opportunity to change all of what you have been bad at doing into something new. Every moment is a new exploration. Every moment is a new gift. It is time to embody that, and embrace it, and life from that perspective. It is time to give myself the gift to love myself, and to allow each aspect of me to shine. And a big part of that is how I present myself to others, and in that sense, today will be a major step forward. I’m happy for it. I’m grateful for it. I’m grateful for just being alive. I’m grateful for just being.
